Previously on "Teen Wolf:"
That puts Matt at the scene
of three murders.
We know it's Matt.
Just do what he says.
What, are you gonna kill
everyone in here?
That's what Jackson's tor.
Your mother wrote this note.
I don't know how I could sit
until someone paid for her death.
What Peter managed to do
doesn't come without a price.
He's gonna come at you, Derek.
It wasn't supposed
to happen like this.
I've done everything that
you've asked of me.
Help your friends.
Leave Matt and Jackson to me.
You know when you're drowning,
you don't actually inhale
until right before you black out.
It's called voluntary apnea.
It's like no matter how much
you're freaking out,
the instinct to not let any water in is so
strong that you won't open your mouth
until you feel like your head's exploding.
But then when you finally do let it in,
that's when it stops hurting.
It's not scary anymore.
It's actually kind of peaceful.
Are you saying you hope Matt felt
some peace in his last moments?
I don't feel sorry for him.
Can you feel sorry for the
nine-year-old Matt who drowned?
Just because a bunch of dumbasses
dragged him into a pool
when he couldn't swim,
doesn't really give him the right
to go off killing them one by one.
And by the way, my dad told me that
they found a bunch of pictures of Allison
on Matt's computer.
And not just of her though.
I mean, he Photoshopped himself
into these pictures.
Stuff like them
holding hands and kissing.
You know, like he had built
this whole fake relationship.
So yeah, maybe drowning when he was
nine years old was what sent him off the rails,
but the dude was definitely
riding the crazy train.
One positive thing came out
of this, though.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah, but I still feel like
there's something wrong between us.
I don't know.
It's just, like, tension when we talk.
Same thing with Scott.
Have you talked to him since that night?
No, not really.
I mean, he's got his own
problems to deal with, though.
Mom.
Mom, we're gonna have to talk
about this eventually.
Okay.
I'm going.
I love you.
I don't think
he's talked to Allison, either.
But that might be more her choice,
you know.
Her mom dying hit her pretty hard.
But I guess it brought her
and her dad closer.
Jackson?
Jackson hasn't really been
himself lately.
Actually the funny thing is,
as of right now,
Lydia is the one who seems
the most normal.
And what about you, Stiles?
Feeling some anxiety about that
championship game tomorrow night?
Why would you ask me that?
Oh.
Uh, no. I never actually play.
But hey, since one of my teammates
is dead and another one's missing,
who knows, right?
You mean Isaac.
One of the three runaways.
You haven't heard from any of them,
have you?
How come you're
not taking any notes on this?
I do my notes after the session.
Your memory's that good?
How about we get back to you?
Stiles?
I'm fine.
Yeah, aside from the not sleeping,
the jumpiness,
the constant,
overwhelming, crushing fear
that something terrible
is about to happen.
It's called hyper-vigilance,
the persistent feeling
of being under threat.
But it's not just a feeling, though.
It's like it's a panic attack.
You know, like I can't even breathe.
Like you're drowning?
Yeah.
So if you're drowning,
and you're trying to keep your mouth
closed until that very last moment,
what if you choose to
not open your mouth?
To not let the water in?
Well, you do anyway. It's a reflex.
But if you hold off
until that reflex kicks in,
you have more time, right?
Not much time.
But more time to fight your way
to the surface?
I guess.
More time to be rescued?
More time to be in agonizing pain.
And did you forget about the part where
you feel like your head's exploding?
If it's about survival,
isn't a little agony worth it?
And what if it just gets worse?
What if it's agony now, and then...
Then it's just hell later on?
Then think about something
Winston Churchill once said.
"If you're going through hell,
keep going."
As you can see, Scott,
there's been some interesting
developments lately.
I think we should catch up.
Come on, Scott, let's be realistic about
who's got the upper hand here.
- Let her go.
- Can't do that.
But let her live?
That's up to you.
- What do you want?
- lwant to talk.
You haven't been
answering your phone.
Let her go, and we can talk
about whatever you want.
I want the same thing
that l have always wanted.
I want Derek and his pack.
You have them all in hiding.
How am I supposed to know where they are?
I think with the proper motivation,
you could draw them out.
And if you hadn't noticed,
I now have a fairly impressive means
by which I can motivate people.
Why do you think
I'm able to control him?
You know the myth, Scott.
The Kanima is a weapon of vengeance.
This is about Kate?
l didn'tjust come here
to bury my daughter.
I came to avenge her.
Are you okay?
I don't know what's happening.
I don't know what that thing was
or even what you are,
but whatever he wants,
just give it to him.
Mom,
it's not that easy.
Do what he wants.
Just give him what he wants.
I don't know if I can.
Derek told us
to be back before sunup.
I thought I heard something.
Look, if we're gonna do that whole
"I thought I heard something" thing,
then we shouldn't be stopping.
We should be running.
No, listen.
Coyote?
Wolf?
No, it can't be.
There are no wolves in California.
No, but there are werewolves.
That didn't sound like Derek.
Maybe it was.
You decided.
When?
Tonight.
Everyone's gonna be
at the game.
- And we figured it was the best time.
- It's not like we want to.
What do you want?
Since ljust turned 16 a month ago,
I wouldn't mind getting my license.
I can't do that if I'm dead, you know.
Well, I told you there was a price.
You didn't say it would be like this.
Yeah, but I told you
how to survive.
You do it as a pack.
And you're not a pack
without an Alpha.
We know.
You wanna look for another pack?
How are you even gonna find one?
We think we already did.
Would you mind seeing who that is?
It's okay, Isaac.
We're open.
Like all of a sudden
we heard all this howling.
It was unbelievable.
- There must have been a dozen of them.
- Maybe more.
Yeah, or maybe only two.
You know what
the Beau Geste effect is?
If they modulate their howls
with a rapid shift in tone,
two wolves can sound like 20.
Look, that doesn't matter, okay?
There's another pack out there.
There's got to be.
We've made up our minds.
We lost, Derek.
And it's over.
We're leaving.
No.
No, you're running.
And once you start, you don't stop.
You'll always be running.
I expected a slightly warmer welcome.
But...
point taken.
Why does it smell like that?
What?
Scott said almost the same thing to me
a few months ago.
One day he could somehow tell
the difference
between which animals were
getting better and which...
were not.
He's not getting better, is he?
Is it cancer?
Osteosarcoma.
It has a very distinct scent, doesn't it?
Come here.
I know you're well aware of what
your new abilities can do for you.
Improved strength,
speed, and healing.
You ever wonder
what it could do for others?
Give me your hand.
Go on.
What did I do?
You took some of his pain away.
Only a little bit.
But sometimes a little
can make quite a difference.
It's okay.
First time he showed me, I cried, too.
Quite a situation
you've got yourself in here, Derek.
I mean, I'm out of commission
for a few weeks
and suddenly, there's lizard people,
geriatric psychopaths,
and you're cooking up werewolves out of every
self-esteem-deprived adolescent in town.
What do you want?
Well, I want to help.
You're my nephew.
The only relative that I have left.
You know, there's still a lot
that I can teach you.
Can we just talk?
Sure. Let's talk.
They're leaving tonight,
during the game.
So, why are you telling me?
I'm not telling you.
I'm asking you.
I'm asking for your advice.
From me? Why?
Because I trust you.
Why?
Because you always seem to
want to do the right thing.
I usually have no idea what I'm doing.
Actually, I always have no idea
what I'm doing.
Do you want to let me know
what you're doing right now?
I'm not going anywhere,
if that's what you mean.
l have too many people here
who need me.
Well, I guess
that makes me lucky 'cause...
'Cause I don't have anyone, so...
Are you gonna go with them?
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I will.
- Good luck with the game, though.
- Well, thanks, but I'm not going either.
Can't even think about playing
some meaningless game right now.
You weren't at practice last week,
were you?
No, I skipped it. Why?
And you didn't hear?
- Hear what?
- Jackson was there.
- What do you mean "there"? Like, he was...
- As if nothing had happened.
Wait. That means...
- The game tonight?
- Yeah.
He's playing.
Whoo!
Yeah, go Cyclones!
You okay, dude?
I'm perfect.
Well, we all know that,
but are you okay?
You didn't answer my texts all week.
I'm getting worried about you.
Jackson.
Jackson!
Wow! Let's go!
Stay in the goal tonight, Danny.
Do not come out.
And if you see me coming towards you,
run the other way as fast as you can.
Good morning.
In less than an hour,
aircraft from here
will be joining others
from around the world.
And you will be launching the largest
aerial battle in the history of mankind.
What?
Mankind. That word should
have new meaning for all of us today.
- What the hell is he talking about?
- He does this every year.
-Seï¬oudy?
-Yeah.
- We are fighting for our right to live.
- Yeah!
Wait, is this...
Yeah, it's the speech from
"Independence Day".
But as the day the world declared
in one voice...
It's coach's favorite movie.
We will not go quietly into the night!
- He doesn't know any sports speeches?
- I don't think he cares.
Today we celebrate
our independence day!
Yeah!
Well spoken, coach.
I might have chosen something
with a little more historical value,
but there's no denying your passion.
And while I haven't been here long,
there's no denying my pride in having
a winning team for this school.
I know you'll all be brilliant tonight,
even with only one co-captain
leading you.
Now, I'm your principal,
but I'm also a fan.
So don't think I'll be content
to watch you merely beat this team.
Get out there and murder them.
You heard the man.
Asses on the field!
Yeah!
Coach, are you benching me?
- It's not my decision.
- But I have to play.
McCall, you're failing three classes.
Academics come first.
Coach, you don't get it.
You have to let me play.
McCall, no. Not tonight.
Tonight, you're on the bench.
You don't actually think that I want
to be the Alpha again, do you?
That wasn't my finest performance,
considering it ended in my death.
I mean, I'm usually more...
Okay, go ahead! Come on, do it.
Hit me, hit me.
I can see that it's cathartic for you.
You're letting go of all the anger,
self-loathing, and hatred
that comes with total
and complete failure.
I may be the one
taking the beating, Derek,
but you've already been beaten.
So, go ahead.
Hit me if it'll
make you feel better.
After all, I did say
that I wanted to help.
You can't help me.
- Your dad coming?
- Yeah, he's already here.
- You seen Allison?
- No, you seen Lydia?
Not yet.
You know what's going on?
Yeah.
It's going to be bad, isn't it?
I mean, like people screaming,
running for their lives,
blood, killing,
maiming kind of bad?
Looks like it.
Scott,
the other night seeing my dad
get hit over the head by Matt,
you know, while I'm just lying there
and I can't even move, itjust...
I want to help, you know,
but I can't do the things
that you can do.
I can't...
It's okay.
We're losing, dude.
What the hell are you talking about?
The game hasn't even started.
Now put on your helmet and get
out there. You're in for Greenberg.
- What? What happened to Greenberg?
- What happened to Greenberg? He sucks.
You suck slightly less.
I'm playing? On the field?
With the team?
Yes, unless you'd rather
play with yourself.
I already did that today, twice.
- Get the hell out there!
- All right.
Oh, no. Why is my son
running on the field?
Because he's on the team?
He is.
He's on the team.
He's on the field.
My son is on the field!
Oh, dear God.
Scott. Can you hear me?
Ah, you can. Good.
Then listen closely because
the game is about to get interesting.
Play it again.
Let's put a real clock
on this game, Scott.
I'll give you
until the last 30 seconds.
When that scoreboard clock
begins counting down from 30,
if you haven't given me Derek,
then Jackson is gonna kill someone.
So tell me, Scott,
who's gonna die tonight?
Should it be your mother,
who so bravely came out to support you?
Or the sheriff,
your best friend's father?
Or how about
the pretty little redhead
who managed to survive
the bite of an Alpha?
Or maybe one of these
innocent teenagers
with their whole life ahead of them?
Oh, God.
Or should I do everyone a favor
and kill that ridiculous coach?
It's up to you, Scott.
But you are going to help me
take Derek down.
Because if you don't...
I'll have Jackson rip someone's head off
right in the middle of the field
and drench everyone you love
and care about in blood.
See?
Prime example right here.
I'm not healing as fast.
Coming back from the dead
isn't easy, you know.
I'm not as strong as I used to be.
I need a pack.
An Alpha like you.
I need you as much as you need me.
Why would I want help
from a total psycho?
First of all, I'm not a total psycho.
And by the way, you're the one
that slashed my throat wide open.
But we're all works in progress,
right? So...
We need each other.
Sometimes when you need help,
you turn to people you'd never expect.
He's probably just warming up.
Ooh, I got it, I got it.
Oh, he's just a little nervous.
Plenty of time to turn it around.
Ow.
- Sit down, McCall.
- But, coach, we're dying out there.
I'm aware of that. Now sit.
You came to help.
I came to win.
Come on!
Run!
- Come on!
- Run!
Allison, wait.
No!
No, no, run.
Go.
Go!
You got a plan yet?
No, right now it's pretty much just
keep Jackson from killing anyone.
Well, that might be easier
if you're actually in the game.
We have to make it so coach has
no choice but to play you.
How do we do that?
He's got a bench full of guys he can use
before he ever puts me on the field.
Can you do it without putting anyone
in the hospital?
I can try.
La hey!
Ramirez!
You're in.
Murphy!
La hey!
Seriously, what the hell
is your problem?
Stop!
It's not broken.
But I can't move it.
I think Jackson nicked me
'cause I can feel it spreading.
You want to play chess, Scott?
Then you better be willing to
sacrifice your own pawns.
One, two, three.
Crap. McCall.
Either you're in or we forfeit.
Okay.
Something's happening, isn't it?
Something more than a lacrosse game?
- You should go.
- Oh, I'm not going anywhere.
But everything that I said before,
forget it. All of it. Okay?
If you can do something to help,
then you do it.
You have to.
I will.
Stop!
Please, Allison, stop!
Don't you know
what you're really bargaining for, Scott?
Haven't you guessed what
the real offer on the table is?
It's Allison.
It's always been Allison.
You give me Derek,
and I'll let you have Allison.
YOU owe me CI new bOW.
You owe me an explanation.
For what? I caught them.
Me.
"Caught" came very close to kill.
And that's not the way we do this.
Maybe it's not the way you do it.
I think my way
worked out pretty well.
Allison.
Hey, Grandpa, it's me.
We got our two runaways.
Call us back.
What?
It's just the first time
I've heard you call him that.
It was a good effort, Isaac.
It was.
This would be so much more poetic
if it were halftime.
You tried to build your pack.
You tried to prepare for the worst.
You weren't ready.
Because of it, Gerard is winning.
He's taking his time.
He's toying with Scott.
He's going after your wolves,
one by one.
He's relishing in his victory.
How about you tell me something
I don't know?
Oh, I'm going to.
And it's gonna prove why you
should trust me.
Why you need to trust me.
Because I'm going to tell you
how to stop Jackson.
What do you mean?
How to kill him?
Actually, how to save him.
McCall!
Where's McCall?
Where is it?
Where's the ball?
Hey, who's got the ball?
Where did it go?
Oh, oh, oh.
Oh, crap.
Stilinski!
Shoot it. Shoot the ball!
Shoot it, you idiot!
Shoot it!
Yeah!
- Yes!
- Whoo-hoo!
I scored a goal?
I scored a goal!
Where is he?
Yeah!
Yes! Yes! Whoo!
There's a myth that you
can cure a werewolf
simply by calling out
its Christian name.
It's just a myth.
Sometimes myths and legends
bear a hint of truth.
Our name is a symbol of who we are.
But the Kanima has no identity.
That's why it doesn't seek a pack.
It seeks a master.
And who else grows up with no pack?
No identity?
- An orphan.
- Like Jackson.
And right now,
his identity is disappearing
beneath the reptilian skin
and you need to bring him back.
- How?
- Through his heart. How else?
You know,
in case you hadn't noticed,
Jackson doesn't really have
too much of a heart to begin with.
Not true.
He'd never admit it,
but there is one person.
One young lady with whom Jackson
shared a real bond.
One person who can reach him.
Who can save him.
Lydia.
Yeah!
Yes!
Whoo!
Your best ally has always been anger,
Derek, but what you lack most is heart.
That's why you've always known that
you need Scott more than anyone.
And even somebody as burned
and dead on the inside as me
knows better than to underestimate
the simple yet undeniable power
of human love.
We did it. We won!
Yes!
Yeah! Yes!
Nothing happened. Nothing.
Scott!
Scott, where are you?
- Scott!
- Mom. Are you okay?
Yeah, I'm fine.
But somebody is hurt.
- Somebody is down on the field.
- What?
He's not moving!
Get out of the way!
Move! Back off!
Move. Move.
Jackson?
What's happened to Jackson?
Jackson!
Jackson, what's happening?
Can we get a medic over here?
We're gonna need a medic!
He's not breathing. No pulse.
- Nothing? Oh!
- Nothing. Oh!
Oh, my God. There's blood.
There's blood.
Look.
He did it to himself?
Get down here.
Get down here and hold his head.
Tilt it up.
Where's Stiles?
Where's my son?
Where...
Where's Stiles?
Where the hell is my son?